Our last governance function,
is Policy and Procedure Management.
Policies are often written by governance professionals, and earlier we said,
that part of the reason for that is that much of the decision-making from
our information security steering committees wind up a security policy.
In that way, security policies become lists of organizational controls.
They set direction by expressing what leadership has decided or
appropriate security controls or inappropriate employee behaviors.
To be effective, they are almost always determinative,
meaning that they use forceful binary language to avoid ambiguity.
Words like must, must not, shall, and others.
Because these documents dictate what the organization and its employees must do,
and users are trained to be aware of their content,
they operate as controls themselves.
While policies dictate organizational behaviors,
procedures dictate specific behaviors but exist to support policy.
When a policy dictates something that must occur or will occur,
the procedure is there to make sure that those
responsible perform that action in a uniform way.
In that way procedures are tactical,
they provide detailed line by line instructions about how to accomplish a task,
and of course, since they ensure that those tasks were completed,
they also operate as controls.
Now, policies often get conflated with procedures.
One of the reasons for that,
is that folks try to make policies overly detailed,
the detail should be in the procedure.
Let's look at a couple of examples.
If our policy is to cook a different meal everyday,
our procedure is today's recipe,
or you might have a policy requiring users to report security incidents,
how to report them is the procedure.
Now, notice in this procedure,
we actually have some passive language.
It says, that users should contact IT security by,
and then it gives them a couple of options.
Passive language is okay in both policies and procedures,
but it should only be used when you're providing users with choices.
If your intention is to require users to do something,
you have to use determinative language.
Let's look at another example.
When you're writing or assessing a policy,
it should be looking for four things immediately.
Is it clear on purpose?
Meaning does the policy have a clear and definitive purpose,
so when an employee picks it up,
will they know exactly why the policy exists.
Is it clear on scope,
will that same employee be able to tell exactly what the policy applies to?
Is it every employee?
Is it every computer system or is it only some of them?
Policies should never be tactical.
If you're reading a policy and it describes an entire process,
that process should, generally,
be moved to a procedure document.
Policies are meant to be concise,
explaining what is permitted or not.
Procedures represent how something should, actually, be accomplished.
Finally, policies in particular should use
determinative language to make it clear that the defined behavior is a requirement.
There are some occasions when you may use passive language,
but it is nearly always followed by some determinative action.
Here, the user has a choice to bring their own mobile device,
but if they exercise that choice,
they must follow additional guidelines.
Now, let's walk through just a few more examples.
In this instance, the purpose of the policy serves
to guide the organization in protection of the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of information and technology assets,
but then the purpose goes on to describe other actions.
Typically, we'd want to remove that.
The policy also talks about security incident reporting and it says that,
"Users may contact the Information Security Department
if their laptop is lost or stolen."
That language isn't determinative,
and as we've discussed,
in policies, you want to use determinative language.
It should say, "users must or users shall".
Then finally, firewall monitoring, it says that,
"Firewall logs will be reviewed one time every quarter
by," and then it provides a rather lengthy explanation how to do that.
This is language best saved for procedure.